DOC: Getting started guide for beginners (#460)
xorbitsai/inference: doc/source/getting_started/launching_models.rst

.. _launching_models:

================
Launching Models
================

> You can submit commands to launch the model via Xinference's command line tool or Client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can launch models using Xinference's command line tool or client.
```

First, make sure you have installed the Xinference SDK:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install xinference

> Using the Command Line to Launch the Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launching models with CLI
```

==========================================

.. note:: Suppose you have started the Xinference server endpoint at ``http://0.0.0.0:8001``. 

> Launch Llama 2 Chat model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch an instance of Llama2 chat model:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   xinference launch --model-name "llama-2-chat" \
                     --model-format "ggmlv3" \
                     --size-in-billions 13 \

>                      --endpoint "http://0.0.0.0:8001"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     --endpoint "http://127.0.0.1:8001"
```

> Launch GTE Embedding model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch an instance of General Text Embeddings (GTE) model:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   xinference launch --model-name "gte-base" \
                     --model-type "embedding" \

>                      --endpoint  "http://0.0.0.0:8001"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     --endpoint  "http://127.0.0.1:8001"
```

> Using RESTfulClient to Launch the Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launching models with client
```

=======================================
.. code-block:: python

   from xinference.client import RESTfulClient

>    c = RESTfulClient("http://0.0.0.0:8001")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   client = RESTfulClient("http://127.0.0.1:8001")
```

   model_uid = client.launch_model(model_name="llama-2-chat", 
                                   model_format="ggmlv3",
                                   size_in_billions=13)

> After launching the model, you can see the corresponding model's uid in the console. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the model instance is launched, the system will return the model's UID.
```

> You will need to use this model's uid as a handle to interact with the model in the client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to use this model's UID as a handle to interact with the model using the client. 
```

> You can also list the running models using the ``list_models()`` method of RESTfulClient:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also list the running models using the ``list_models`` method:
```

.. code-block:: python

   from xinference.client import RESTfulClient

>    c = RESTfulClient("http://0.0.0.0:8001")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   client = RESTfulClient("http://127.0.0.1:8001")
```

>    print(c.list_models())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   print(client.list_models())
```
